Lobby is a canon[1] location where players spawn when they join DOORS. It is also a community hub for DOORS players to communicate and strategize for an upcoming run.
Lobby contains twelve elevators, with six on each side of the room, which offer 1-4 player-sized lobbies that players can enter to start a run. Players can also view achievements they've received from completing them mid-run, which can be showcased next to their death count, or in its seperate tab, located to the right of the Lobby Shop. In the chat box, the game will also send messages that offer insights to players, as well as dev messages. In-game settings can also be tweaked here.

Opening up the Shop grants players the ability to purchase Knobs and Revives, along with Boosts that last for three runs. Purchases are added up to the leaderboard, and the top 20 donators will be listed on a board near the left side of the Lobby.

To the right of the Shop button there are options to view achievements, tweak Game Settings, and the game Credits.

Players can make their own custom elevators for The Hotel, The Mines and The Backdoor (2024 Trick Or Treat Event elevators have mods on and give out random candy with a catch) in Lobby. They can choose up to 50 players in their game, as well as a friends only option. This also applies for Modifiers, in which you will need to require the 'Rock Bottom' achievement to allow use to the elevator. In Private Servers, you can have up to 12 people in a single elevator. Note: To make a custom elevator for The Backdoor, you will need to require the 'Detour' achievement.  

There are several extra areas around the Lobby, with most of them just being minor places to explore. The most obvious one is the outdoors, showing the exterior of The Hotel, a sign that simply displays "HOTEL", a stone staircase, the water surrounding the area, and the entrance to The Backdoor that can only be entered if players have the 'Detour' achievement. Another alcove appears to the right of the entrance, with three boarded up doors and two closets. On the opposite side is a small hallway with a door at the end, and the leaderboard in the middle of the right wall. At the opposite end is a small downstairs area, with Backdoor-styled items such as a broken and boarded up door, three closets, two tables, plenty of boxes and a locked gate. Meanwhile, at the other side of the downstairs alcove is a blocked off passageway, with Seek's eyes seen inside.

Depending on the update, more merchandise gets placed in the game.

Lobby has only two doors, those being the Backdoor Elevator and the Lobby Doors that lead players in and out of the Lobby. These doors do not make any sound when opening them. Lobby Doors are very similar to the Office Doors found in The Hotel, with both designs looking very similar, both having a “WELCOME” mat next to them, and they also open just from the players pushing them. The Lobby also has the Backdoor Entrance Doors, which function like the elevator to the Backdoor.

Lobby Doors have the design very similar to the Office Doors found in The Hotel, with them being split into two separate doors to make one full door. Unlike Office Doors, they have handles and have different windows. They do not make any noise when opening them.

Backdoor Entrance Doors are found outside of the Lobby and function like the elevator to the Backdoor subfloor. In order to access it, players must have the “Detour” badge to enter the elevator. The Backdoor Entrance Door has a design of a dark brown door with a panic-bar to open the door, as well as a yellow exit sign above the door; this implies that the door was used for emergency exits, as the door has a panic bar to quickly push the door and enter The Backdoor, to further prove this, it also has an exit sign, meaning that this was an exit or an emergency one.