The Dam (also known as Room 200) is the final boss location of The Mines in which you attempt to drain Seek.




Overview
The Dam appears to be a giant reservoir for sewer water. It has multiple stairwells and ladders going down, storage lockers and work lights scattered throughout, and exposed fluid pipes with valves that must be turned to progress the fight. At the top floor is a large metal door, which is opened using The Dam's Generator; behind it is a ladder that leads up to a manhole in The Woods.

The Dam is empty upon arrival. Quickly after, Seek's goop floods the room, leaving only the uppermost level untouched. Seek emerges from the flood as a giant lump with several eyes alongside debris and smaller, eyeless lumps. As the fight progresses, Seek gains new attacks, and the goop is drained down one level at a time until The Dam is empty again.

Walkthrough
In the boss fight, there are a total of 11 valves players must rotate to lower the black goo. The valves are scattered throughout The Dam and requires the players to jump through platforms to reach them. Falling into the goo deals 5 damage per tick. Seek variations also appear to try to hinder your progress.

Phase 1
In this phase, players must turn 2 valves while dodging the Seek Hands, which try to knock you off the platform. A red glow is visible at where the hands will strike. Getting hit by the hands deals 20 damage and knocks the players.

Phase 2
In this phase, players must turn 4 valves. In addition to the hands, Seek Sludge can also appear. It follows the players slowly and attempts to drag the players down if it reaches the player, killing them immediately.

Phase 3
In this phase, players must turn 5 valves. In addition to the hands and the sludge, Seek Worm can also attack. A red glow is visible at where the worm will appear and land. Being in Seek Worm's path while it leaps kills the players immediately.

Once all valves have been twisted, the black goo will all be drained out, revealing the generator. Turning it on it will power the metal door on the top floor of The Dam, revealing a manhole to the Woods.

TriviaTips
Seek Worms cannot reach the player as long as they are standing on solid ground.
Be careful where you jump. If you are not careful, you may fall into the slime.
Try to plan out your path before crossing the dam.
Once over the pool, do not stop. This lowers the risk of being attacked by Seek tremendously.
This is best used with the tip above it, being planning out your route before hand.
It is recommended you wait about a 3rd of a second before jumping again, as jumping again too quickly can potentially glitch it out, resulting in you falling into the slime.
If you have fallen into the slime, click the jump button twice as this will increase chances of getting back to safety.
Use the sound the Seek Worm makes when you're jumping on the debris to locate it.
Sometimes, there can be an invisible wall that blocks you from reaching a valve. This is likely a glitch, but most commonly happens in the 3rd phase.
If a Seek Hand or the Seek Worm are going to attack, there will be a red glow in the spot they're attacking.
Calculate when you are going to jump from a platform to another, because jumping before or later may make you fall into the goop and making you lose HP or die.
Bringing a Bandage Pack with you to The Dam is highly recommended in case you fall and escape from Seek's goop.
On the last stage, two valves located closer to each other can be reached by climbing the ladder and using stairs, saving players time. One of the valves is very close to the right, so it is recommended to turn the valves on the left side, then the one that can be reached using stairs, and then the one on the right.
If the Trick or Treat modifier is active, it is recommended you bring Candy that heals you, or have already eaten candy such as Cough Drop or Cinnamon.
Terminal Velocity can also be brought to skip crossing the pool (with proper aiming), however this is risky.
If possible, hold a Crucifix at all times in The Dam. If the player is damaged by Seek Hands, Seek Sludge or Seek Worm while holding a Crucifix, all of them will disappear, and the player will survive (except to Seek Worm). After the crucifixion, all of them will start spawning again.
The Crucifix won't save players from Seek's goop or from drowning in the goop.
Exactly as with Seek in its normal form, the crucifixion only will stun it temporarily.
After The Content Update, phase 3 of The Dam has only 1 valve that requires you to jump on the platforms in the goop.
Despite having 5 valves required, 4 of them can all be reached without jumping on the platforms even once.

Advertisement
Trivia
Players previously had to search for all three fuses for the generator after defeating Dam Seek. Now, after the Floor 2 nerf, the fuses are already inside, and the generator only has to be turned on with all 3 fuses intact.
Falling into the goop does damage over time, similarly to Eyes, albeit around 50% slower.
Given how difficult it is to jump back to safety, it can still easily kill a player with full health.
The goop also decreases the player's oxygen at a very fast speed, insta-killing them if they touch it for too long.
The reservoir that players encounter when they climb the manhole that leads into The Woods is monitored by The Dam.
Due to the name of the room itself and the fact that Seek gets drained into The Dam, some people refer to Dam Seek as "Damned/Dammed Seek".
It was previously possible to jump over and around rocks to get to the valves easier. After the 9/18/2024 patch, invisible walls were added, making most of these jumps impossible.
Additionally, the rocks were replaced with giant lumps of seek goop in the Content Update that go up to the ceiling, making it completely impossible to jump over.
Prior to The Content Update, the Crucifix could not be used in The Dam against Seek or any of its forms.
Prior to the release of The Mines, there were no leaks of The Dam.
Even after draining a level of Seek’s goop, more can still be seen coming out of the pipes, although it does not fill the dam.
The Seek Sludge is inspired by Hole from the Tower Heroes Event, an entity which was planned for the game but never made an appearance.
Prior to 'The Haunt', the valves did not have a sound effect when interacted with.
If you get Jack's blood room at The Dam, Seek's body will be red and it's eyes will turn red however the goop is still black.
Hide can still appear in lockers in The Dam, although lockers are useless in this room.
After interacting with the ladder in The Dam, you are not allowed to go down and back to the ground.
The name of the soundtrack that plays while Seek is inside The Dam is named "Oh Dam", which is a pun about the name of the room along with it possibly being a reaction of the player's to seeing Seek in this location.