The Greenhouse is a location in The Hotel, composed of Doors 90-99. In The Greenhouse, Rush and Eyes will spawn more frequently and also it is one of the few locations Snare can spawn in without modifiers. Due to absence of lights and higher rate of entity spawns, The Greenhouse is mostly considered the hardest place in The Hotel, along with The Electrical Room. At the Greenhouse's first room, (door 90) or the final room (door 99), players can access The Outdoors subfloor using Shears, and a Skeleton Key.



Overview Overview
The Greenhouse is a vast structure with long passageway halls resembling a dilapidated greenhouse, identified by large windows on the walls and ceiling, overgrown vines, oblong shaped planters, and large floor planters. Crudely made closets are present in each room. All rooms are identical in build, besides the occasional cross-shaped rooms that almost always have Dupe present. The doors within the Greenhouse appear to be a dark-gray coloured gate, with the room number on the middle.

The Greenhouse does not contain any lights. Rush spawns much more frequently here, making the stretch more challenging. Due to the absence of lights, Rush will not have a flicker warning, meaning that sound is the only way to detect its presence. Because of the loud downpours in The Greenhouse, Rush's sound cue is even more difficult to detect.

The Greenhouse contains an entity called Snare, which temporarily stuns players who step on them, and deals 20 damage. However, if the damage dealt would be lethal, the player's health will be put at 2.

Notes
It is heavily recommended to have a light source since the rooms are always dark, and Snare can appear in these rooms.
A flashlight or a shakelight is the most recommended since they can scan player's surroundings further than a lighter.
As of The Mines update, the candle, though being a decent light source, no longer possesses the ability to alert players that an entity has spawned, unless the candle is a Moonlight Candle.
Guiding Light can also act like a light source. However, it only lights up the doors or the dead players' items.
It's still useful when there's a Snare near the next door.
Eyes can also act like the light source.
Rush, when spawning, will take 11-15 seconds to rush through any Greenhouse room and 8 to 10 if I'm Runnin' Here modifier is enabled, this also applies if you are using 'Rush Around'' modifier.
Given this, the player(s) need to pay the most attention around 10 seconds after opening a door.
This wasn't the case before the Haunt update, where Rush would take exactly 10 seconds from opening a door to attack. The time window between hearing Rush and it attacking used to be significantly smaller but hiding on the 9th second from opening the door would result in guaranteed success.
Keep in mind that Hide has been slightly buffed in the aforementioned update and won't let the player hide any longer than 4.5 seconds in the Greenhouse.
Evading Rush by approaching the nearest closet each time a player enters a room while avoiding Snare is advised, as there is no forewarning due to the complete absence of lights.
If a player is caught by Snare, the use of a crucifix may grant an evasion from Rush, though players cannot hold it while trapped, and it is not automatically equipped.
The player can use vitamins to reach a hiding spot quicker to avoid Rush in The Greenhouse, however, they should be used accordingly as Snare could still trap the player.
The Greenhouse will always connect to The Courtyard, which serves as the entrance to the location.
No items of any type can spawn in The Greenhouse, as there are no tables or containers.
This means that there are no locked doors since keys cannot spawn on the floor as of the Hotel+ update.
Keys could still spawn on the floor in front of the door with "Locked and Loaded" or "Key Key Key Key" modifiers.
This is no longer the case.
There was a bug prior to the Mines update where the key would spawn in Snare.
Despite being one of the hardest sections of the Hotel, the Greenhouse currently only has two layouts. One is the standard square room and the plus shaped rooms. There has been another room, the L Shaped Room, but that was replaced with the plus shaped rooms with The Mines update.
The best strategy for avoiding Rush is to quickly go to a closet once the player enters the room. They must pause next to the closet; if they hear Rush, get in, and once it is safe after waiting long enough, they may proceed to the next room. If Rush spawns in a second time, they must repeat the process, and if not, go to the next room. The player may need to hold a light source to ward off Screech during the process.
Rush in The Greenhouse can spawn since door 91 and until door 98 in the current build of the game.
Rush can spawn between 2 to 4 times in The Greenhouse in the current build of the game, with an average of 3 times.
Rush is only able to spawn again each 2 opened doors by the player from the room where Rush's last spawn has occurred as the oftenest spawn rate. (Example: Rush last spawn was on door 93, so its next spawn would be on door 95 in the worst scenario).
It is usually recommended to enter The Greenhouse with low graphics (usually best is 1 graphic quality) due to lightning lasting longer than on high graphics. This trick may also help with avoiding Snare. You can also use the tiny amount of dim light you give off while looking down to also check for Snare.
Stick to the walls, as it will be harder to get caught by Snare, and there is often easy access to closets in the case players get caught off guard by Rush.
One effective strategy is to utilize both the flashlight and the candle; the flashlight can be used when next to a closet, to scan the area for snares and other closets, and the candle can be used when players are traversing The Greenhouse and moving between closets. With proper usage, it becomes easy to spot closets and make short trips to each one, and players are given a small safety net when their attention is not focused on a closet.
Note that the Candle no longer has this functionality as of The Mines update; in order to detect entities, it must be transformed into a Moonlight Candle in a Rift first.
Screech can set off false alarms for the candle, and in the worst-case scenario, Screech will spawn in alongside Rush while players are in the middle of two closets. With careful play, Screech can be dealt with, and the candle will stay unlit, tipping off a player that Rush/another Screech is coming.
A crucifix can be used instead of a candle, but it will only save players once, unlike the candle, which can be used every time a player is on the move (provided it has enough durability).
Note that the candle doesn't work when Eyes is present; when this happens, it's safer to stay next to a closet and listen for Rush, compared to the danger of getting caught when walking from closet to closet.
The doors in the greenhouse can be seen through so the player can see the next room through the other side of the door which can be used to avoid Dupe, since Dupe doors in the greenhouse appear to have nothing on the other side.
Unlike normal doors, Rush will not open any of the doors in the greenhouse. However, it will still move towards the correct door.
This specific behavior is only shared by locked rooms.
Dread will spawn in much earlier (1 minute).

Advertisement
SUPER HARD MODE!!!
Some Greenhouse rooms have less closets than normal, some may have no closets at all.
The room layouts and garden beds have been rearranged.
Jeff the Killer is almost guaranteed to spawn at least once in the Greenhouse section, usually at Door 90.
There are two special rooms with a very rare chance of appearing at least once in the Greenhouse.
There is a maze room where players must go through in order to enter the next room. Eyes can still spawn in the maze room.
There is a room with a chair and a floating sign saying, "take a seat."
Both of these rooms have an exit door that is made of very low and poor quality.
Rush and it's variants could spawn in the next room it opens, due to the higher rate of spawning. Due to this, players may still have to stay cautious.
Rush and it's variants can spawn between 1 to 5 times. with an average of 3 times.
Snare safe spot still working on this mode.