The Shafts are three unique locations appearing in The Mines. These locations are The Chasm, The Festering Meat Cave, and The Generator Cave. All three locations are where Figure resides.

The Chasm (First Encounter)
The Festering Meat Cave (Second Encounter)
The Generator Cave (Third Encounter)

The Chasm
Top Floor
Bottom Floor
Top Floor
Floors Present
The Mines
Rooms Present
110-114
Containers
Drawers
Toolboxes
Locked Toolboxes
Entities
Major Entities:
Figure
Guiding Light
Minor Entities:

Dread
Glitch
Jack
Timothy
Screech
Shadow
Void
Hide (Bottom floor)
The Chasm is a room in The Mines that spawns once between rooms 110 and 114, and is also where the player encounters Figure after escaping from The Hotel for the first time. Figure will be seen falling through a hatch from a pipe, and lands, to start patrolling the caverns below. It is noted that the Figure in this room is not harmful in any way and will not respond to the player whatsoever, even if they throw down a glowstick, which normally would alert it.

Overview Overview
The chasm is a large, enclosed space in caves with a very large ceiling. There is a flat surface at the bottom of the chasm, on which there are cabinets, fragments of rails. and large stones and cobblestones of gray and red color. There are two ledges on top, forming the second floor. The first ledge is the one through which the player came through to this room, and the other is at the opposite end of the room. Both ledges are connected by two minecart roads with minecarts on them that serve as bridges, which are the only way to get ahead.

On top there are many pipes with a lid in the form of a lattice, which the Figure breaks, falling to the lower floor. This is Figure's first appearance in "The Mines".

Usage Gameplay
The point of the location is to tell the player that Figure is in The Mines, but is a minor entity rather than a major boss like in the previous floor. There are a lot of toolboxes in this room compared to others. Figure is harmless during this first encounter, as you are unable to fall off or go down to the Chasm's bottom.

Door Walkthrough
In order to pass the room, the player needs to walk over bridges blocked by minecarts. This again implies the importance of minecarts throughout the floor and how the player can use them to advance.