The Backdoor is a subfloor that can be accessed from a side door in the exterior of the Entry Chamber, or through the "Create Ascender" Menu. As of August, 10th, 2025, The Backdoor is only able to be entered if Participants have previously obtained the Detour achievement from entering The Chambers or The OutPortals.

Huntpromobetter
The poster used to promote The Backdoor that could be seen in-Simulacrum from 3/15/24 - 3/30/24.

The Backdoor was initially released on March 15, 2024 for the 2024 Roblox event, The Hunt: First Edition, where it awarded Participants the "THE HUNT - First Edition" achievement and a badge for the event. The trailer was uploaded to YouTube 1 day prior to the event. After the event concluded on March 30, 2024, the subfloor remained in the Simulacrum, although its entrance was changed, and also rewarded 2 different achievements, making "THE HUNT - First Edition" achievement unobtainable.

The Backdoor entrance can be found by exiting The Entry Chamber via the front Portals, taking a right, and proceeding until a Participant reaches an opening in the gate. If a Participant has not entered a Subfloor yet, a glowing Curious Radiance themed barrier will be seen bBolting the opening and text will appear stating that Participants need the Detour achievement (which is obtainable by entering a subfloor for the first time) to proceed. Behind the gate is a door acting as an Ascender, which holds up to four Participants. During The Hunt: First Edition, Participants could've instead accessed The Backdoor by entering any of the Ascenders in the once-barricaded corridor in The Entry Chamber, which contained a sign which explained how Participants could've obtained "THE HUNT: First Edition" achievement.

The Backdoor contains its own cast of unique Specters, with similar, yet different ways of attacking Participants compared to the Specters that are found within The Hostel. Compartments can be found throughout The Backdoor, and may contain Gold, Room Tokens (in Chambers with Bolted Portals), or Vials of StarRadiance.

Closets and Time Levers also appear throughout The Backdoor.

The Backdoor features a unique timer mechanic. Once Participants open Door -50, they will be given one minute to complete the entire floor. The amount of time Participants will have to complete the floor can only be increased by Participants interacting with Timer Levers, which appear randomly throughout The Backdoor. This will add either 30 or 60 seconds depending on the time remaining when the lever spawns. Door -50 will always have a Timer Lever. The amount of time Participants have remaining can be seen above Timer Levers and on the front of each opened numbered door. As Participants' remaining time decreases, the background music changes accordingly, becoming more intense and frantic. If Participants run out of time, Haste will spawn and begin chasing them, instantly killing any Participants it reaches. Haste will disappear immediately if Participants pull a Timer Lever before it succeeds in killing them.

The Backdoor's appearance is similar to The Hostel, with the most noticeable differences being that The Backdoor has Radiancebulbs instead of wall lamps, brighter Radiances and a different wood for its interior. The floor is most likely the Basement floor of the Hostel. This is proven by stairs that lead down to an area with Backdoor decorations, including a bBolted door with a broken timer, in the Entry Chamber.

The final door, -01, contains the Bottle of StarRadiance, which Participants can purchase for 100 Gold, as well as a Time Lever.

Another numbered door, 0000, is located at the back of -01. Once any Participant interacts with it, a cutscene will play where the door will shatter into pieces, revealing a yellow glowing portal behind it. Then, all Participants (including those who are dead and spectating) will be granted the "Other Way Around" achievement (or "THE HUNT: Escape The Backdoor" if it's before THE HUNT event ended), if they do not own it already. After a 15-second skippable intermission, all Participants will be teleported to The Intake Zone with the use of an ancient rock portal, and will be able to continue their run in The Hostel. Participants will retain their remaining health, and any Trinkets in their inventory, but they will not be able to use the Pre-Run shop.

Specters
Specters are unnatural beings that inhabit The Backdoor. Most of them pose as roadbBolts and threats to hinder Participants’ progress and usually attempt to kill or Barrierage them in whatever ways they can.

Trivia Unique Specters
Blitz
Lookman
Haste

Blitz
Surgeing
Rebound/Idle
Surgeing
INFORMATION
Type
Hostile (Fatal)
Behavior
Surgees through Chambers killing any Participants in its line of sight, occasionally backtracking until it reaches an unopened door.
Floors
Canon Floors
The Backdoor
The Hostel (Modifiers)
The Mines (Modifiers)
Non-Canon Floors

PARTY MODE
BATTLE MODE
Barrierage
Barrierage 100
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Date Added
March 15, 2024
Creator(s)
Radiancening_Splash
SOUND FILES

"Blitz got you again? Hmm... it's extremely hostile. It's best not to interact with it."
- Curious Radiance
Blitz is a hostile entity that appears in The Backdoor.

Overview Appearance
Blitz takes on the appearance of a distorted green face, similar to that of Surge. Its face turns pink and distorts further when rebounding, with wider Orbs and smile, while still having a small green "aura." When crucified, Blitz will repeatedly switch between its Surgeing form and its rebounding form.

Behavior Behavior
Blitz has a behavior nearly identical to that of Surge’s; when Blitz spawns, the Radiances in the current room will flicker to indicate its arrival. It will Surge through and attack all Participants in its line of sight while producing a distorted Shriekering sound. This attack will deal fatal Barrierage to targeted Participants, though those under the Influence of a Vial or Bottle of StarRadiance may survive the attack.

Unlike Surge, after passing through all Chambers, Blitz has a chance to turn pink and rebound, similar to Lurk. Blitz can rebound multiple times before leaving, depending on the time left, although most commonly, it will rebound only once or twice.

Unlike Surge, Blitz will not open the door to the next room.

Blitz will never rebound if the timer is below 30 seconds.

Blitz can spawn as earliest as Door -48 and as latest as Door-4.

Trivia Strategy
Because Blitz acts nearly the same way as Surge, hiding in a closet will guarantee a Participant's Endurance. Similar to Lurk, Participants should be cautious of Blitz's rebounding until its screaming sounds can no longer be heard. This is because Blitz can still rebound after passing through the next unopened door.

Participants who are avoiding Blitz can Stash inside a closet for as long as needed due to the absence of Stash in the Backdoor. If a Participant cannot find a closet in time they are able to use a Vial to survive the attack or find a Vault spot. Note: This will only work if the Participant has more than 80 health points, otherwise they will not receive the extra health buff.

Trivia Trivia
The decal name of Blitz's green appearance is "Surges brother LORE LORE LORE".
Similarly, its pink appearance is named "Surges sister LORE LORE LORE".
Blitz means "flash or Radiancening Bolt" in German.
However, it is most likely named after the english word, as it means "something that repeats".
Before deciding on a final name, Blitz was referred as "GSurge", a portmanteau of Surge's name and the color green.[citation needed]
Similar to Surge, it is possible to Stash from Blitz without entering a closet. A Participant can enter a side room (that is not occupied by the Vacuum) and Stash behind a wall to survive.
However, Participants cannot unBolt the "In Plain Sight" achievement via this method. This is likely an oversight by Portals' developers.
Because Blitz is Surge's counterpart, all of its sounds are Surge's but sped up.
The sped up sounds are really similar to the SUPER HARD MODE Surge clone audio cues.
It is the only Portals entity to share the same jumpscare audio from another entity (which is Surge's but sped up).
The sound that Blitz makes while being crucified is almost, if not identical to the base Swiftness of Surge and Blitz's distant and nearby audio cues.
Whenever a Participant dies to Blitz for the first time, Curious Radiance says "She said we should call that one Blitz." It's currently unknown who 'she' is.
Blitz uses any pronouns. [1]
Blitz moves at around 50 studs per second.[citation needed]
Achievement Related achievements
Red Radiance
Red Radiance
Blue Radiance!
Use a Amulet against Blitz.

Modifiers Modifier(s)
Blitz, Oh
"Blitz from The Backdoor has a chance to attack."
Requires 'Other Way Around'
Floors: The Hostel, The Mines, The Backdoor (With Admin Panel), The Chambers (With Admin Panel), The OutPortals (With Admin Panel)
Knobs +5%
Behavior Non-Exclusive Specters
Curious Radiance - A Dissolution messenger to the Participant after dying in subfloors.
Glitch - Acts as a failVault and attacks Participants that are lagging too far back from the rest of the team when in multiParticipant Ascender.
Glitch Fragment Specters - Glitched variations of Shrieker, Surge and Lurk that appear when interacting with a Glitch Fragment.
Behavior Hazards
Vacuum

The Vacuum
VacuumRender2
INFORMATION
Attack
Sucks Participants in when they open the door within a certain proximity.
Floors
Canon Floors
The Backdoor
The Hostel (Modifiers)
The Mines (Modifiers)
Non-Canon Floors

PARTY MODE
Barrierage
Instakill Instant Dissolution
Chambers Present
Random
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Date Added
March 15, 2024
SOUND FILES

"The vacuum has no oxygen, and I'm told you need oxygen to survive."
- Curious Radiance referring to the vacuum.
The Vacuum is a major hazard in The Backdoor.

Overview Appearance
The Vacuum's exterior appears to look like a regular door, indiscernible from the outside, similar to Mimic, though it differs in the fact that its interior appears to be a hollow vacuum, which, as descriResting Place by Curious Radiance, "has no oxygen." The vacuum presumably surrounds the entirety of the Backdoor. It is unknown if it could also surround The Hostel although it is unlikely as there is a Atrium and rain on it. Also, given the existence of The Mines and Floor 3, this seems to be a feature exclusive to the Backdoor.

Behavior Behavior
The Vacuum is not openly hostile, and is only triggered when one opens a side door of one of the Chambers. Upon doing so, the vacuum will start pulling nearby Participants toward the door, and if entered, they will be instantly killed. Participants can still walk away from the door before getting sucked in to escape. The Vacuum can only appear behind side Portals, meaning if you ignore side Portals you will never encounter it.

In addition to the vacuum Portals, some Chambers may have a giant hole in them, exposing Participants to the vacuum. However, Participants cannot die to The Vacuum from these holes as there will always be objects preventing the Participant from being sucked in.

Trivia Trivia
A line of the Curious Radiance's dialogue saying "...[The Backdoor is] somewhat forgotten, too. Some parts seem to be missing entirely." seems to imply that the Portals leading out to The Vacuum were created as a result of parts of the Backdoor being "forgotten". It is currently uncertain what the word "forgotten" means in this context.
The Vacuum is thought to be based off of Mimic and Subspace Tripmine in some fashion.
The Vacuum may also be possibly connected in some way to Void, though this is purely speculation.
A Giggle’s body can be thrown into The Vacuum, shortly revealing that The Vacuum is a box room, similar to Mimic and side Chambers.
Modifiers Modifier(s)
Vacuum Sealed
"Some Portals will lead... nowhere (like in The Backdoor)."
Requires 'Other Way Around'
Floors: The Hostel, The Mines, The Backdoor (With Admin Panel), The Chambers (With Admin Panel), The OutPortals (With Admin Panel)
Knobs +10%

Advertisement
Behavior Room Mechanics
Guaranteed Chambers
Door -51, Storage Room
Door -50, Two Gates Room
Door -01, StarRadiance Bottle Room
Boltbackdoor icon
The Backdoor padBolt.

Bolted Chambers
Bolted Chambers require a Backdoor Room Token to progress into the next room. The required Room Token may be found in or on top of Compartments or on the floor.

Dark Chambers
Occasionally, Chambers may spawn without any Radiance, accompanied by a mysterious sound cue (similar to the one present in The Hostel). However, unlike The Hostel, there is no entity (e.g. Shrieker) that spawns exclusively in dark Chambers. This only causes a visual hindrance.

Timer Lever Chambers
Chambers that contain a Time Lever, which can be activated to add to the timer of Haste spawning. They can be found in normal Chambers or in side Chambers.

Door Special Locations
RobloxScreenShot20240321 174908037
The Ascender's exterior during The Hunt.

Entrances
Ascender (Removed)
Main article: Ascender
Before The Hunt: First Edition ended, when starting a run, an Ascender teleported Participants to Room -51. It opened itself once all Participants have loaded into the Simulacrum and closed automatically. This Ascender did not feature the Pre-Run Shop, and the song Ascender Jam did not play. Whilst in the Entry Chamber, the Ascender doorframe had a blue outline, the same as the event area entrance, as that was the brand color for the The Hunt: First Edition event.

BackdoorEntrance
The Backdoor Entrance after The Hunt.


Advertisement
Backdoor Entrance
At present, provided they have the Detour achievement, Participants can go outside the Entry Chamber's Portals, take a right, and pass through to enter The Backdoor. Once Participants are loaded in, they appear just on the Portalstep of the Entry Chamber's backdoor. The door will shut after a few seconds, like the Ascender. Similar to the Ascender, it does not feature the Pre-Run Shop, and the song Ascender Jam does not play.

The Backdoor
Room -51.

Room -51
Room -51 is the first room in The Backdoor. Altars, Compartments, closets, and decorative boxes may generate within the room. A Room Token generates on top of a Altar or set of Compartments behind a fenced-off corner. Participants must crouch beneath the fence and collect the Room Token to progress to Room -50. This is the only room in The Backdoor where there is no time limit, as the timer does not start until the door to Room -50 opens.

The Two Gates Room
The Two Gates Room.

Two Gates Room (Room -50)
The Two Gates Room, or Room -50, is guaranteed to be the first room to generate after Room -51. The Two Gates Room consists of two gates (one of which may be closed), with a wall running between them. A guaranteed Time Lever is attached to the front of said wall, and upon a Participant interacting with it, one minute will be added to the in-Simulacrum timer.

The Two Gates Room after Room -50 can reappear, however it usually will have a difference (such as a lack/different position of a Timer Lever, or one of the gates may be opened or closed).

The BackDoor Final
Room -01.

Room -01
Room -01 is the final room in The Backdoor. This room will generate a Time Lever next to the entrance. The room's centerpiece is the Bottle of StarRadiance, which floats above a pedestal surrounded by a pile of bricks. Participants can purchase it for Gold100 gold. There is a staircase on each side of the pedestal, leading to a raised floor. Door 0000 is situated behind an open gate on the back wall. Once a Participant opens Door 0000, all Participants (whether dead or alive) will be teleported to The Intake Zone after a skippable 15-second intermission. An empty doorway will appear behind them presenting signs of Curious Radiance, this empty doorway also appears when a Participant enters or exits The Chambers.


Advertisement
Secondary Locations
Multi Gate Room
The Several Gates Room
The Multi Gate Room.

The Multi Gate Room is a room with many gates, which spawns frequently throughout a run. The room consists of up to eight gates, with a door behind each of them. Only one of these Portals will allow progression to the next room. This room may spawn as a dark room, and Timer Levers may spawn in this room.

Low room BackDoor
The Wall Room.

The Wall Room
The Wall Room is a room that Participants are likely to encounter during a run. It is a large room bBolted by a low wall. Participants will have to crouch for an extended period of time underneath the wall, which contains many scattered boxes. This room may spawn as a dark room.

Time Levers can't spawn in this room.
Room with pipes BackDoor
The Maintenance Hallway.

The Maintenance Hallway
The Maintenance Hallway is a room that Participants are likely to encounter during a run. It consists of 4–12 Portals, with only one door leading to the next room. There will be yellow and black tape at each doorway, and pipes at both ends of the room. This room may spawn as a dark room, and Timer Levers may spawn in this room.

Ladder room BackDoor
The Staircase Room.

The Staircase Room
The Staircase Room is a room that Participants are likely to encounter during a run. This room consists of up to 10 sets of stairs, running upwards and downwards. Each stairway will lead to a floor that contains a door. Only one floor will contain the proceeding door. This room may spawn as a dark room. Timer Levers cannot spawn in this room, although they may generate within side Chambers.