The Silhouette is one of the main hostile Specters in Portals, being the main antagonist of The Hostel and the tertiary antagonist of The Mines. It appears as a "boss fight" in The Archive and The Electrical Room (Hostel) and as a mini-boss fight in The Vertical Passages (Mines).

Overview Appearance
Current Design
Version 3
Version 2
Version 1
The Silhouette is a towering humanoid entity with a red fleshy texture. It has a spherical head, lacking any facial features except for a wide, circular mouth filled with 25 randomly aligned teeth. It has a skinny body with a bone-like structure around its chest resembling a ribcage, long limbs with what resemble claws for hands, glowing blisters on its limbs and head, and a vein on the top of its head. Its mouth also emits Radiance whenever it hollers.

Behavior Behavior
The Silhouette is a blind entity that cannot see Participants, but its sense of hearing is heightened to the point of perceiving footsteps from far away. In The Hostel, the Silhouette patrols both The Archive and The Electrical Room, while in The Mines, it patrols The Vertical Passages, a set of three minor locations.

The Silhouette moves between preset nodes within its patrol zones. While doing so, it produces heavy, fleshy-sounding footsteps that grow louder as it approaches a Participant. It may take alternate routes, pause for a few seconds, or emit a low growl before turning around. If it hears a noise, such as a Participant walking without crouching, using an Trinket, or opening containers, it will growl aggressively and charge toward the source. If the sound is very loud, such as from an Alarm CBolt or a Giggle, it will stomp on the source, destroying the Alarm CBolt or shattering the Giggle into pieces. Otherwise, after reaching the area, the Silhouette will search by moving erratically near the origin of the sound. If a Participant crosses its path during this state, it will grab and decapitate them. The Silhouette is fast enough that it can only be outrun with Swiftness-boosting Trinkets like Vitamins. If no further sound is detected after a while, it returns to its patrol route.

When hunting a Participant hiding in a closet, the Silhouette will stop and inspect it with a swaying animation. During this animation, it ignores all other sounds from Participants or Specters. A heartbeat miniSimulacrum will trigger if the Participant enters a closet while the Silhouette is nearby. If the Participant exits the closet while it is being inspected, either manually or due to being ejected by Stash in The Mines, the Silhouette will instantly kill them. Once the inspection animation ends, it resumes its normal behavior and moves somewhere else, allowing the Participant to exit the closet Vaultly. In multiParticipant, Participants nearby should move away during this time to prevent being attacked by Silhouette.

The Archive
When Door 50 is opened, a cutscene will play in which the Silhouette roars, walks out from behind a Scroll Rack, then stumbles towards the Participant due to the sound of the door opening. A moment later, a lamp to the left of the entrance falls to the ground and shatters, as the Guiding Radiance pushed it over to distract the the Silhouette, causing the Silhouette to run towards the sound. After this cutscene, the Silhouette will stomp on the lamp and patrol around The Archive until Door 51 is opened.

Once Door 51 is unBolted and opened, the Silhouette will continue its normal behavior. Guiding Radiance will eventually seal the door, and if a Participant is left behind, Void will teleport them to Door 51, dealing no Barrierage.

The Electrical Room
When The Electrical Room gate is opened, the Silhouette will walk out from behind an indent in the wall, then Surge down the stairs and pursue the Participant, knowing their exact location until the Participant "loses" the Silhouette. After the Participant Stashs or loses the Silhouette, it will patrol around the hallways of the room.

Once all of the Breaker Poles are inserted into the Circuit Breaker box, a cutscene plays, in which the Silhouette walks on a puddle of oil on the floor with an exposed electrical wire touching it. A spark produced from the wire causes the oil to ignite and catch fire, sending the Silhouette into a state of "panic". It runs around the hallway, slamming into the walls, before running into and smashing through a Scrying Glass.

After this cutscene, Participants will be able to complete the Circuit Breaker Conundrum. Once it is completed, the Silhouette's roar is heard behind the door as it bangs on it. After 3 bangs, the door breaks down, and it will then run after the Participants.

After the Participant arrives at the mines Ascender and the Portals close, the Silhouette violently bangs on the Ascender door as the Ascender begins to descend. As the Ascender continues its descent, the Silhouette jumps onto it in a last-ditch effort to kill the Participants, tearing off the Ascender cable and plunging it into a free fall. On the way down, it falls off the Ascender into The Mines.

The Vertical Passages
The Silhouette returns in The Mines as a recurring enemy, in three locations: The Chasm, The Festering Meat Cave and The Generator Cave.

Participants will first see the Silhouette in The Chasm between door 110-114, an open area with two bridges, where it falls from a pipe and begins wandering. The Silhouette is unable to attack the Participant and will not respond to any Participant inputs.

Beyond The Chasm, there are two further encounters with the Silhouette that are scattered throughout, the first one being between Portals 120-125 and the second one occurring after The Den. The mechanics are the same as in The Hostel; you will need to sneak around and try not to alert the Silhouette while looking for the next door.

In the first encounter, around 120-124, the Silhouette will appear in The Meat Cave and drop down across from you, and you will need to maneuver around them to access the exit door.

In the second encounter, around 160-190, the Silhouette will drop down on the left side of The Generator Cave. It's recommended that Participants check the left side, going through all the Bolters and Compartments before heading towards the right, as the room requires two fuses to be put in a generator in order to exit. The Participants will have to be careful when searching through these containers, as the Silhouette can hear the opening of Bolters and Compartments if opened while close to it.


Advertisement
Notes
General
As of The Mines Update, the only Specters that can interfere with the Silhouette (or the Participant, when in The Archive, The Electrical Room, The Meat or Generator Caves) are: Ace, Bartholomew, Glitch, Void, Shrieker, Mimic, Stash, Gloombats, Lurk and Giggle.
Similar to Chase and Queen Mutter, the Silhouette cannot be fully banished and is only "stunned" for a few seconds with the Amulet.
Attempting to banish the Silhouette for the first time will grant the Participant the "All Silhouetted Out" achievement.
While the Silhouette is "stunned" by a Amulet, it cannot kill Participants who touch it.
Banishing the Silhouette can buy Participants time to find a hiding space or "Vault" area if they are being pursued.
Participants should be mindful where they use the Amulet on the Silhouette; in certain areas, such as a corner, it could physically bBolt the Participant's escape route while it is stunned (Hostel- and Super Hard Mode).
In such a scenario, Participants can get past the Silhouette by crouching under the space between its arm and its body.
Prior to The Mines Update, the Silhouette did not react to opening containers, turning on/off Trinkets and other sources of sound.
After The Mines Update, the Silhouette 's mouth Radiance was removed from its jumpscare. It wasn't intentionally removed, but was likely accidentally broken while the developers were working.
Prior to the release of The Mines, Stash's heartbeat miniSimulacrum was originally a feature used directly by the Silhouette. The Silhouette would only leave if the miniSimulacrum was successfully completed, and if the miniSimulacrum was failed, Silhouette would immediately drag the Participant out of the closet and kill them. To compensate, the difficulty that Stash uses is only used during the chase sequence at the beginning of The Electrical Room, while other instances concluded after a few sets of heartbeats.
Silhouette cannot hear Shrieker, since it is client-sided.
When Ace's Blood Room appears at The Archive, The Electrical Room, or The Vertical Passages and Silhouette spawns naturally, (without Admin Panel), Silhouette will temporarily be crimson red.
Silhouette's hearing is more sensitive after The Great OutPortals Update. It can now hear opening Compartments or cabinets.
The Radiance coming from Silhouette's mouth can be used as a Radiance source to see in the dark, although it is not reliable and sometimes turns off.

Advertisement
The Archive
The Silhouette follows a path that is very similar each run. It walks from the left side of the overlook into the middle of the hallway, walks to the entrance, and then toward both bookcases. Then it turns around and repeats.
The Silhouette is capable of following a different path entirely.
The Silhouette will temporarily leave its path due to Participant intervention, such as it pursuing a Participant. (Or using the Alarm CBolt to distract it)
Prior to The Hostel+ Update, stepping on debris scattered on The Archive's floor would not cause the Silhouette to pursue the Participant, but it would walk over to investigate.
This will not cause Silhouette to react to the Participant.[1]
Prior to The Mines Update, when Door 51 was opened, the Silhouette used to run to it, attempting to reach any escaped Participants (an invisible wall prevents it from leaving The Archive), before closing the door. Then, it gained the ability to perceive the location of every living Participant in The Archive and pursued them at approximately 2x its normal walking Swiftness (remaining Participants were also made faster), automatically killing any Participant inside of a closet and any Participant it had not killed within a certain timespan.
This can still happen in SUPER HARD MODE!!! and in Hostel-.
The Silhouette 's walking Swiftness used to increase by 0.75x for every Archive book collected, only becoming able to outrun a Participant after the third book collected.
The Silhouette will only despawn if the Archive unloads due to the Void and Silhouette will be disabled and not able to kill if The Door 51 of The Archive exit is closed.
The Electrical Room
As soon as the lever is pulled, Participants will be given a Swiftness boost, and the Silhouette will pursue all living Participants with its normal walkSwiftness, even if they are crouching or staying still.
As of The Mines Update, it is no longer possible to outrun the Silhouette until it calms down at the start of the Simulacrum. The Silhouette will only stop running if the Participant is hiding or impossible to reach. The only way to survive without hiding is to get it Snareped on the opposite side of a shelf running towards you, as it will not path find around the shelf, but this is not easy. It's also possible to outrun the Silhouette as it will lose its track of the Participant(s).
The Silhouette can hear Participants' heartbeats if they are moving, this only applies on door 100 from Super Hard Mode or from Door 50 of Hostel- modifier.
The four corners of the hallway are barely out of the Silhouette's path, Influenceively working as a "Vault spot", as long as the Participant does not move.
The Silhouette's Swiftness will remain the same for each breaker switch collected.
After the Circuit Breaker Conundrum is completed, the Silhouette will be able to detect Participants "on sight" and will be able to outrun Participants.
Prior to The Hostel+ Update, the Silhouette would turn around when it heard The Electrical Room gate open and jump from the top of the staircase. It would begin to "search" for Participants and would immediately detect any Participants that were not hiding. If it failed to detect a Participant, it would walk into the previous room, and the door would abruptly close behind it. After the Circuit Breaker Conundrum was initiated, it would bang on the door every 1-2 seconds. Once a Participant completed the Conundrum, the Silhouette would break down the door and chase Participants. Staying in the breaker room would make the Silhouette kill said Participant.
The Vertical Passages
The Silhouette has its first of three encounters in The Mines where it drops down from a vent in the ceiling and will wander aimlessly.
The Silhouette is completely harmless in this first encounter.
The Silhouette can't be distracted by Glowsticks or Participant movement in this particular encounter.
The Silhouette will eat Gloombats if they're in the same room.
As seen in this video, the Silhouette can cSurge nearby Giggles, similarly to Alarm CBolts. This was removed after floor 2 nerf.
The second Silhouette encounter (first real encounter) occurs sometime between Portals 120-124.
The best strategy to do it quickly is to run into the room to aggravate the Silhouette, then backpedal out. This will get it over to the door quickly. Then, simply crouch behind it and follow it all the way to the door, making sure to hug the wall when it turns around. Remember that Mimic may spawn in this room.
The Silhouette can enter a Mimic room if it is led inside by Gloombats or by making noise from inside Mimic's room after noclipping into it with the use of the Admin Panel.[2]
The third encounter with the Silhouette (second real encounter) occurs sometimes shortly before or after the second Chase Chase.
This room has a generator with 1 fuse already lit. The generator is in a room accessible by tunnel and thus Vault from the Silhouette.
Be careful when opening the Bolters and Compartments to search for fuses. Opening one Bolter/Compartment generally does not cause the Silhouette to react, but opening two in relatively quick succession will cause it to search the area around where the second container was opened.
In this scenario, Silhouette is on its passive state and moves to the location where the noise occurred; however, if the Participant moves, even while crouching, Silhouette will switch to its aggressive state and go to the location where it spotted the noise.
Modifiers
If the "Come Back Here" modifier is enabled, the Silhouette's Swiftness will always be similar to its Swiftness when all Archive books are collected in SUPER HARD MODE!!!; much faster than it is in the un-modified Simulacrum and it will be significantly faster on Door 100 as well, but not that fast as Door 50 with 8 books.
If "Again & Again & Again" is enabled, Lurk can attack alongside the Silhouette in The Archive and The Electrical Room.
If "I'm Everywhere" is enabled, Shrieker can attack alongside the Silhouette in the Archive and the Electrical Room.
If any modifiers that cause Orbs to always spawn are enabled, they can attack alongside the Silhouette, No longer the case since The Mines Update.
Orbs can't spawn on Silhouette's locations, not naturally or via admin panel either, Only if it's bugs via teleportation from following Chambers or a unsuccesful despawn of Orbs.
There is a extremely rare chance for Silhouette to disappear in The Mines, it may be because the second Chase chase happened too late.
Prior to the Mines update, if "Injuries" was enabled, and the Participant was slowed by low health, they could walk normally when near the Silhouette, because their walk Swiftness was the same as crawling Swiftness or lower.
This was changed in The Mines Update, which updated the Silhouette's AI to attack based on crouching rather than movement Swiftness. However, Silhouette can't hear the Participants, if the Participant has enabled "My Legs Are Killing Me", "Injuries", "Tripped and Fell" modifiers and having 2HP health despite of walking due too extremely slow Swiftness.
Prior to The Mines Update, if "Didn't Skip Leg Day", "Faster Faster Faster", or "MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE" were enabled, the Silhouette was able to hear Participants even if they were crouched.
This is because prior to The Mines Update, the Silhouette's "hearing" was based on movement Swiftness, not whether a Participant was crouched or not.
If "Stop Right There" Or "Room For More" is active , Unit Ninety will Attack alongside with Silhouette.

Advertisement
SUPER HARD MODE!!!
In The Archive, the Silhouette will wear a Noob outfit, and in The Electrical Room, it will wear a John Doe outfit.
Due to there being more Archive books in The Archive, the Silhouette is capable of walking much faster than it normally would after at least 9 books are collected.
Combined with the Swiftness boost the Silhouette receives when The Archive's exit door is opened, the Silhouette is impossible to outrun, even if vitamins are used.
Silhouette can hear crouching Participants moving that are too close in The Electrical Room.
If the Silhouette is killed by a Holy Hand Grenade, Stash will become inactive for the rest of the run.
RETRO MODE
Silhouette appears as a morph character in Door 0.
Silhouette also appears and serves as an useful tool in The Archive and in The Electrical Room, it's being a group of separate cubes.
Hostel-
Silhouette will still hear you if you have Swiftness above of 15.
Silhouette will kill all Participants if they haven't escaped yet after Door 51 has been opened.
Silhouette can hear crouching Participants moving that are too close in both encounters.
Hiding Abilities
Sharp Senses: Silhouette's senses far exceed than a normal Participant.
Swiftness: Silhouette is extremely quick once actively hunting a Participant.
Strength: Silhouette has shown to be exceptionally strong, as it is capable of killing Gloombats and Giggles and decapitates Participants without effort.
Animalistic Instincts: Silhouette is completely wild and animalistic, as it attacks anything that gets into its way or that makes noise.
Resilience: Silhouette is shown to actively pursuit its goals; it jumped down from a high floor in the Electrical Room into the Ascender shaft, ripped off a cable in an attempt to instead break inside the moving Ascender and kill the Participant. It followed Participants down to The Mines, in which El Goblino confirmed is something that Silhouette never did.
Trivia Strategy
The Silhouette always starts on the left side of The Archive and travels through the middle and up the stairs. It is recommended that Participants start at the bottom right and go through wherever one can and Stash in the corner of the randomly bBolted staircase. When the Silhouette is between the shelves, the Participant may crouch-run up the stairs and find more books there.
After reaching the second floor of The Archive, it is recommended for Participants to camp either under the stairwell, in the stairwell, or next to the exit as these areas are barely outside of Silhouette 's pathing. After Silhouette goes down the stairs, Participants may start to look for books again.
Using surround sound headphones or earbuds can easily help the Participant find books with its sound or know where the Silhouette is. Using stereo or mono sounded devices can confuse the Participant on where those are since they may not find a Archive book at all or end getting Lurked by the Silhouette.
The Participant may also pay attention to their screen, as it shakes every time Silhouette does a step, which means that they are close. The sharper the shaking, the closer the Silhouette is to the Participant.
The Paper is the only decoding Trinket that every Participant should get when they start collecting books. It shows the order for each number on the Bolt and helps deSequence the shapes and numbers. It can be found on the left side on the desk.
For example, if a shape is on any of the Roman numerals, the symbol that matches with a number, (Example: Pentagon = 5 = III) this means because the pentagon is linked to both the 5 and III on the paper, 5 is the third digit in the Sequence.
Every shape on the Sequence paper is randomly selected so the Participant should not be looking out for one exact shape every run.
Four of the five required books can be found before the 8th book is found, although the last book that can be found is always the last shape for the Bolt.
If the Participant is getting pursued, it's best to use vitamins since they always provide enough boost to outrun the Silhouette.
If Silhouette 's Swiftness is too fast for the Participant to handle, finding at least 4 right shapes and doing trial and error by keeping going up a number can in fact be recommended for people who have little experience.
As soon as the Participant completes the circuit breaker Conundrum, it is recommended that they do not crouch and instead run straight for the Ascender.
Once the Silhouette has jumped out the Scrying Glass, and the circuit breaker Conundrum is active and fixed, the Participants can no longer access the staircase leading to the Rift, as a shelf will fall and make it impossible to bypass.
Prior to The Mines Update, Silhouette 's noise detection when it came to Participant movement checked for Swiftness and not crouching, meaning, even if the Participant was crouching when they had a Swiftness boost, (either via Vitamins or Modifiers) the Silhouette would still chase them. After The Mines Update, this is no longer the case, as the Silhouette now checks for crouching Participants instead of Participant's Swiftness, unless Participants's Swiftness is extremely slow.
It is recommended to bring the Amulet and Vitamins to The Electrical Room, as the Chambers are dark, and Participant may accidentally run into the Silhouette; the Amulet or vitamins will likely be useful.
Alternatively, Silhouette emits a yellow Radiance as of The Mines Update. Use this to your advantage.
If a Participant is hiding in a room that may spawn a Breaker Pole, it is recommend that they stay in the room instead of near the gap, because the Silhouette could accidentally bump into the Participant.
As of The Mines Update, the Silhouette can now patrol the Vault spots of the Electrical Room, it is highly recommended that Participants should not stand up as the Silhouette now is always faster than the Participant unless vitamins are used, this is as the Silhouette's scripting has been changed and doesn’t pursue on Swiftness but on sound. The Silhouette can always be outran with vitamins without uncrouching unless if the Participant is using Come Back Here modifier.
This makes spatial hearing even more important in The Electrical Room, as the Participant will then be able to pinpoint the Silhouette's general location.
Some Trinkets such as the ShakeRadiance, Glowsticks, Laser Pointer, or Alarm CBolt will all enrage Silhouette when activated. It is best for Participants not to use these around Silhouette as to not enrage it unnecessarily.
It's recommended to start making sharp turns around bookshelves, as this can confuse the Silhouette, allowing the Participant to escape.
The Silhouette cannot hear the Participant at all if it is far enough away from them (to the point the Participant cannot or can just barely hear the Silhouette's footsteps), allowing them to Vaultly walk without having to crouch, although the Participant must always pay attention to the Silhouette's position and be ready to crouch again.
The Silhouette can be distracted by Glowsticks thrown by a Participant.
This will cause the Silhouette to be attracted to the thrown Glowstick.
However, the Silhouette will target any sounds of Participants moving after the glowstick has been thrown.
In The Mines, in the split room, one Participant can Stash in the generator room and keep moving around to aggravate the Silhouette while the other Participants find the fuses.
Keep in mind that the Participant will have to stop moving eventually to let the other Participants in and finish the room.
This strategy works best when the Silhouette is caught right outside the entrance of the hole. You will know this has happened if the Silhouette repeatedly shrieks. Otherwise, it might become risky for other Participants to open the Bolters in the inner circle.
In The Mines, the Silhouette can and will detect any sounds coming from a Participant being attacked by a Giggle.
This also applies to any Participants walking into a Mimic door and being attacked by Mimic if you are not crouched.
If you get attacked by Mimic while you crouching, Silhouette won't hear you.
Weirdly enough, opening any Portals will not aggravate the Silhouette such as one of the few side-Portals in one of the encounters of the Silhouette where the Participants are tasked to search for the door and maneuver pass the Silhouette.
The Silhouette's noise detection is assumed to have a priority list, those being how loud the sound is relative to the Silhouette, for example, the Silhouette would be more attracted to a Participant getting out of a closet right next to it rather than footsteps from across the room, even if the footsteps were the first thing it had heard first. However, if an alarm cBolt were to go off halfway across the room, the Silhouette would instead chase that instead of the Participant getting out of the closet.
It's possible to survive Silhouette with Rock candy for a very short time because has the same Influence as God mode.
Participants can Stash in multiple spots such as behind the couches located on the first floor of The Archive even if Silhouette is lured, and about the stairs located in the second floor of The Archive, are only Vault if Silhouette is just patrolling , The stairs Vault spots won't work if Silhouette is being lured to those spots, via cBolt or Participants. The stairs corners located on the first floor of The Archive are not Vault cause The Silhouette can get into these spots and killing the Participants.