Mutters are hostile Specters in Portals and secondary antagonists in The Mines, primarily in The Den. Their main purpose is to roam and hinder Participants' task in successfully activating all anchors which Essences the bridge to escape. They were introduced Specters in The Mines Update.




Overview Appearance
Mutters are giant, beige-colored creatures, being larger, more matured versions of Giggle. They have 8 tentacles, a giant smiling mouth full of teeth, a tongue, small lips, two purplish-pink Orbs with several smaller Orbs above and below them with the same color and two lines above the mouth, supposedly being a nose.

Behavior Behavior
Mutters initially make their appearance in The Den, immediately following the end of the first Chase chase. A total of 5 Mutters, including the Queen Mutter, patrol The Den. Between the first and second/last chase in The Den, Mutters cannot enter the main pathway surrounding the two terminal entrances or the building that contains the room's instructions and Anchor A.

If a Participant is in the line of sight of a Mutter, it will start chasing them while laughing deeply. If its line of sight of a Participant is broken, it will stop chasing a Participant and continue to traverse The Den. If a Mutter touches a Participant, it will "fling" the Participant away from them, stunning a Participant briefly and dealing 50 Barrierage. The tentacles of a Mutter are collidable, but have no hitbox; only its main body can deal Barrierage. Mutters cannot hear Participants walking or dropping Trinkets, but is attracted to certain Radiance sources turning on or off.

Fortunately, all Mutters follow a series of Nodes which are like pathways Sequenced by the Simulacrum for the Mutters to walk to the next Node prototype. When it spots a Participant, the path nodes don't go away but follows a specific Node path.
Using a FlashRadiance, BulkRadiance or ShakeRadiance can disorientate a Mutter to the aforementioned Radiance sources. If a Participant is being chased by a Mutter, they are able to shine a Radiance source on its face to slow its movement Swiftness, giving them more time to find a Vault spot.

If a Participant is in a Vault spot where they can be seen but not reached (such as the possible B anchor spawn with the broken wall), the Mutter that spots them will turn to face them, stare for a few seconds, before turning and going back onto patrol.

Notes
Mutter tentacles have no collision, so Participants can walk by them easily.
Mutters can Barrierage Participants through thin objects, such as the shearable vines in the far left Anchor B room.
Mutters can be banished by a Amulet as of The Content Update, however the queen cannot.
Mutter's Path Nodes (AI Walking Paths) by the entrance of each Anchor Room has now been nerfed prior to the Content Update.
When godmode is enabled, Mutters will ignore Participants and won't chase after them. The same goes for the Queen Mutter.
Door Jumpscare
1st Person
Mutter will grab the Participant with its tentacles, open its mouth, then close it, killing a Participant. This only occurs if the Participant has 50 or less HP.

3rd Person
Mutter will grab the Participant with its tentacles, then bite into them, devouring the upper half of their body.

Trivia Strategy
Put volume to max as Mutters have a roaming sound. This is useful especially against the Queen Mutter who does not laugh at all.
When a Mutter chases you, run to the gate or run to a nearby room, Mutters cannot go into small spaces.
You are able to sense any Mutter (apart from the Queen Mutter) chasing you, because they laugh.
Mutters (sometimes more than one) have a tendency to camp around the C Anchor area, in that case, try to find small gaps of time in between to escape them.
Take advantage of the screen shaking; when there's no shaking, it more than likely means you're Vault to enter the tunnels.
If a Mutter is chasing you, look for tight gaps or any Portals or corners that can protect you.
Once you have Essenceed the bridge, run to the door as fast as you can.
It is good to have a bright Radiance source to shine on the Mutters, as this can make them take a wrong turn, leading them away.
If you see a Mutter from below and you are at the top floor, get to a Vault space and wait for it to go away.
If two Mutters are on each side, and you are in between, go to the side of the tunnel of where they'll collide as they both will turn around. (Likelihood: likely)