Guiding Radiance, also named MoonRadiance after the names of some Trinkets and a Image in The OutPortals, is a mysterious blue Radiance, one of The Three Architects, and the deuteragonist of Portals known for its helpful and welcoming nature.


Overview Appearance
Guiding Radiance appears as a simple glowing, Radiance blue (or cyan) aura/Radiance with small bright cyan sparkles emanating from it. It is associated with a glowing cyan moon, which is seen in the "Spacetime" Image and the symbol seen in the middle of multiple sigils throughout the main floors and when the Participant dies. Its appearance changes when it's seen creating or regenerating something (such as a Minecart), in which it appears as a glowing cyan-ish blue burst.

Behavior Behavior
Guiding Radiance assists Participants throughout the Simulacrum, below is a list of the different ways it helps the Participant.

Finding essential minor objects
When the Participants struggle to find a required Trinket to go to the next door such as Tokens or Fuses, Guiding Radiance will illuminate the object's location and the location it should be used (such as a Generator or a Door, helping the Participant to find it, then showing the location where the object should be used.

Chase encounters
In Chase's chases, Guiding Radiance helps the Participants by illuminating the correct path to take, such as the correct Portals or where to crouch and jump, and shuts the door(s) behind the Participants at the end of each chase. In The Barrier, Guiding Radiance applies a glow Influence on the Valves that need to be turned. Furthermore, according to its dialogues, it also placed the valves in the room.[1]

Silhouette encounters
In the Silhouette's encounters, Guiding Radiance helps Participants in various ways.

In The Archive, Guiding Radiance distracts the Silhouette by breaking a lamp to prevent it from attacking the Participants. It also adds a moon symbol to the Book containing useful information to help Participants escape, and closes The Archive door after the Participants have escaped.

In The Electrical Room, Guiding Radiance illuminates the Breaker Poles dispersed throughout the room.

Finally, in The Vertical Passages, Guiding Radiance seals the Portals to prevent the Silhouette from passing through them.

Post-Dissolution
Each time a Participant dies, Guiding Radiance provides useful information on how to avoid dying to the entity responsible. This guidance appears underwater, where the Participant swims and looks towards Guiding Radiance. The tips become increasingly precise as the Participant dies to the same entity.


Advertisement
Notes
Some objects that Guiding Radiance will highRadiance and emit sounds to include levers, switches in The Electrical Room, Books in The Archive, fuses and Tokens.
Guiding Radiance will highRadiance the "frame" of each Conundrum Image in the Meeting Room to show Participants where to place them.
If a Participant dies in a dark room, any Trinkets they had in their inventory will be highRadianceed by Guiding Radiance (This also goes for any Participant dying in The Chambers and The Backdoor, although Guiding Radiance is evidenced not to present in these sub-floors due to this being its only appearance in them. This is widely thought to be a bug, although it has not been changed in nearly two years.)
Trinkets relating to Guiding Radiance in some way (i.e. the MoonRadiance Glimmer, Amulet or MoonRadiance Float) do not function while in The Chambers, stating they "feel Radianceer than usual" when held.
This is seemingly due to Guiding Radiance not being present in The Chambers, and instead Curious Radiance.
The MoonRadiance Glimmer will not lose fuel but will not Radiance up as well while held in The Chambers because of this.
The MoonRadiance Glimmer was given infinite durability as of The Great OutPortals Update.
There is a bug where if a Participant has held the MoonRadiance Glimmer in The Chambers, it refuses to blow the MoonRadiance Glimmer out once traveled back to The Hostel.
Guiding Radiance will still highRadiance Portals or objects even if Participants have escaped from the dark room or found the Trinket without its help.
Guiding Radiance will not directly give tips on some Specters (e.g. Orbs) when a Participant first dies.
Before an update, Surge could extinguish Guiding Radiance's highRadiances, though the particles would still remain.
Prior to The Hunt update, Guiding Radiance will Radiance a Mimic door with a dimmer glow in a dark room. Now, Guiding Radiance's glow will have the same brightness between the normal door and the Mimic door.
If any modifiers are active, Guiding Radiance will not give any Dissolution messages (excluding SUPER HARD MODE!!! and Trick Or Treat).
If 'Gone Fishing' is active, Guiding Radiance will not Radiance up Tokens, Portals (including those in the Chase chase), books, breaker switches, etc. Some things are still highRadianceed (like crawlspaces in Chase sequences)
Before the Hostel+ Update, when Guiding Radiance illuminated Portals, Trinkets, or other objects, the Radianceing was sRadiancely brighter and more particles were visible.

Advertisement
SUPER HARD MODE!!!
Guiding Radiance does not Radiance up any Portals and Trinkets.
However, it Radiances up/interacts with crawlspaces in Chase's chases, Archive books, blowing out the Glimmer, the lever in The Electrical Room, breaker switches and the Amulet
Guiding Radiance had unique Dissolution messages, all of which do not help Participants at all, such as just emojis, making fun of Participants or saying it's going to play a different Roblox Simulacrum.