Entry Chamber is a canon[1] location where Participants spawn when they join Portals. It is also a community hub for Portals Participants to communicate and strategize for an upcoming run.
Entry Chamber contains twelve Ascenders, with six on each side of the room, which offer 1-4 Participant-sized lobbies that Participants can enter to start a run. Participants can also view achievements they've received from completing them mid-run, which can be showcased next to their Dissolution count, or in its seperate tab, located to the right of the Entry Chamber Shop. In the chat box, the Simulacrum will also send messages that offer insights to Participants, as well as dev messages. In-Simulacrum settings can also be tweaked here.

Opening up the Shop grants Participants the ability to purchase Knobs and Revives, along with Boosts that last for three runs. Purchases are added up to the leaderboard, and the top 20 donators will be listed on a board near the left side of the Entry Chamber.

To the right of the Shop button there are options to view achievements, tweak Simulacrum Settings, and the Simulacrum Credits.

Participants can make their own custom Ascenders for The Hostel, The Mines and The Backdoor (2024 Trick Or Treat Event Ascenders have mods on and give out random candy with a catch) in Entry Chamber. They can choose up to 50 Participants in their Simulacrum, as well as a friends only option. This also applies for Modifiers, in which you will need to require the 'Rock Bottom' achievement to allow use to the Ascender. In Private Servers, you can have up to 12 people in a single Ascender. Note: To make a custom Ascender for The Backdoor, you will need to require the 'Detour' achievement.  

There are several extra areas around the Entry Chamber, with most of them just being minor places to explore. The most obvious one is the outPortals, showing the exterior of The Hostel, a sign that simply displays "Hostel", a stone staircase, the water surrounding the area, and the entrance to The Backdoor that can only be entered if Participants have the 'Detour' achievement. Another alcove appears to the right of the entrance, with three boarded up Portals and two closets. On the opposite side is a small hallway with a door at the end, and the leaderboard in the middle of the right wall. At the opposite end is a small downstairs area, with Backdoor-styled Trinkets such as a broken and boarded up door, three closets, two Altars, plenty of boxes and a Bolted gate. Meanwhile, at the other side of the downstairs alcove is a bBolted off passageway, with Chase's Orbs seen inside.

Depending on the update, more merchandise gets placed in the Simulacrum.

Entry Chamber has only two Portals, those being the Backdoor Ascender and the Entry Chamber Portals that lead Participants in and out of the Entry Chamber. These Portals do not make any sound when opening them. Entry Chamber Portals are very similar to the Office Portals found in The Hostel, with both designs looking very similar, both having a “WELCOME” mat next to them, and they also open just from the Participants pushing them. The Entry Chamber also has the Backdoor Entrance Portals, which function like the Ascender to the Backdoor.

Entry Chamber Portals have the design very similar to the Office Portals found in The Hostel, with them being split into two separate Portals to make one full door. Unlike Office Portals, they have handles and have different Scrying Glasss. They do not make any noise when opening them.

Backdoor Entrance Portals are found outside of the Entry Chamber and function like the Ascender to the Backdoor subfloor. In order to access it, Participants must have the “Detour” badge to enter the Ascender. The Backdoor Entrance Door has a design of a dark brown door with a panic-bar to open the door, as well as a yellow exit sign above the door; this implies that the door was used for emergency exits, as the door has a panic bar to quickly push the door and enter The Backdoor, to further prove this, it also has an exit sign, meaning that this was an exit or an emergency one.