Surge is a major hostile entity in Portals. It is one of the most frequent threats in both The Hostel and The Mines.

Overview Appearance
Surge appears as a dark gray skull-like face shrouded in a thick dark blue/black smoke with a dense aura. It has a large open smile, and parts of its face are distorted and hollowed out. Two black holes in the center of its face depict Orbs, and it has a distorted nose that also fuses itself with other holes. Its lower jaw is also fully broken with its teeth randomly aligned.

Behavior Behavior
In The Hostel, Surge's spawn is signaled by the Radiances flickering for approximately 1.5 seconds. After a few seconds, Surge will begin to quickly dash through Chambers, shattering most of the Radiances that it passes (Chambers Surge darkens are considered dark Chambers, meaning that Shrieker can spawn in them) while emitting a unique scream/audio, which progressively increases in volume as it approaches a Participant. When Surge is near a room that a Participant is in, the Radianceing will dim sRadiancely. A Participant entering Surge's "line of sight" at any point will result in an instant Dissolution[1]; the intended and guaranteed method to survive Surge is for Participants to be hiding when it passes them.

When Surge reaches an unopened door, it will open that door, travel through the subsequent room, and despawn once it reaches the unopened door of that room (in The Glass Canopy (Portals 90-98) or Bolted Chambers, Surge does not despawn like this; instead, it immediately despawns upon reaching an unopened door).

In The Hostel, Surge can spawn as early as Door 3 and as late as Door 98, with its typical first spawn being between Portals 10-15. Once Participants pass The Archive (Door 50), Surge's spawn chance will increase sRadiancely, and increase significantly in The Glass Canopy, where it travels at a faster pace.[2] Surge is able to spawn during Chase's crescendo.

In The Mines, Surge's behavior is similar to that of The Hostel, with some Token differences. In addition to flickering Radiances, earthquakes will also signal Surge's spawn. When an earthquake occurs, the room will shake, and an audible rumbling sound can be heard. Surge is also able to attack ahead of Participants; it will spawn behind an unopened door, wait several seconds, and then open that door, traveling through the Chambers in reverse order and can spawn early as Door 103 and as latest as Door 197, with its typical first spawn being after the first Silhouette cameo encounter.

Notes
Surge's hitbox operates off of raycasting, meaning that Participants are able to avoid Surge by staying out of its line of sight, such as keeping a Vault distance or positioning yourself behind specific objects.
The achievement "In Plain Sight" is granted when a Participant dodges Surge (or Lurk, who operates off of similar raycasting) this way for the first time.
After The Hunt Update, Surge can spawn in Chase's Crescendo.
Surge cannot spawn in the following areas:
Chambers without hiding spots (Can spawn with certain Modifiers)
On The Hostel the Portals: 1, 2, 48, 49, 51, 52, 59, 62, 87, 90, 99.
On The Mines the Portals: 101, 102, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 151, 198, 199.
Vault Chambers:
The Intake Zone, Door 0
Archive Entrance room
Hostel's Skinny Hallway
Pre-Jeff shop room hallway (The Hostel & The Mines).
Jeff Shop, Door 53 - 59. 153-162
The Chambers's subfloor entrance, Door 60
Mega Gate Basement, Door 61
Pre-Infirmary room
The Infirmary, Around door 67
Pre-Atrium room, Door 88
The Atrium, Door 89
The Passageway, Door 100.5
Chase's chases
The room previous from Chase's chase hallway intro (The Hostel & The Mines).
2 Chambers after the Chase chase (The Hostel & The Mines).
The Grand Hallway, variable
The Grottoes, Portals 142-149
The Sewage Pipes, Portals 170-180
Impede's sequences
The next and previous room from a Impede encounter. (The Hostel & The Mines).
The Dining Hall, variable
The Bridges, variable
Bossfight sequences
The Archive, Door 50
The Electrical Room, Door 100
The Vertical Passages, variable
The Den, Door 150
The Barrier, Door 200
It is recommended to Stash when hearing Surge's scream, so that the Participant can have enough time to wait for Surge to pass and do not have to worry about Stash.
Surge, when spawning, will take 11-15 seconds to Surge through any Glass Canopy room.
Given this, you know to pay attention the most around 10 seconds after opening a door, and when hearing Surge, quickly getting inside a hiding spot.
There is a 3 second interval between being able to hear Surge and the entity roaming through the room you're in.
Keep in mind that Stash has been sRadiancely buffed in 2024 Trick Or Treat Update, and it won't let you Stash any longer than 4.5 seconds in the Glass Canopy.
This wasn't the case before the Haunt update, where Surge would take exactly 10 seconds from opening a door to attack. The time Scrying Glass between hearing Surge and it attacking used to be significantly smaller, but hiding on the 9th second from opening the door would result in guaranteed success.
Sometimes, the Radiances will flicker but Surge wouldn't spawn, likely to startle Participants,Chase's Orbs that blink or Sally's spawn.
Surge is one of the many Specters capable of breaking Radiances. Surge will break the Radiances of the Chambers as it Surgees through them.
There are a few exceptions where Surge is uncapable of breaking the Radiances. Some of them are The Intake Zone, The Archive and The Electrical Room after the floor 2 patch.
However if Surge passes through The Electrical Room, it will make Shrieker be able to spawn on Door 100 even without any Shrieker's modifiers.
Surge is one of the few Specters capable of opening Portals, this can sometimes cause other Specters to spawn and/or despawn or certain events to trigger.
However, Surge can't open Bolted Portals, Archive entrance, Glass Canopy Portals, The Electrical Room Door, and generator Chambers in The Mines.
Surge could open the entrance to The Archive before The Mines Update (and therefore, in SUPER HARD MODE!!! and with Hostel-).
Surge could open Glass Canopy Portals before The Mines Update (and therefore, in SUPER HARD MODE!!! and with Hostel-), as they had the same appearance as other Hostel Portals.
Surge travels slower the more Participants there are in a Simulacrum.
Participants can use the Amulet to "banish" Surge.
This does not permanently stop Surge, as it can still spawn later in the run.
Surge deals 125 Barrierage, meaning it is possible to survive Surge having enough health and/or star shield while still being in its sight.
Surge "modifies" the room where it spawn, making it capable of having hiding spots, and therefore, having hiding spots.
The same applies to other node Specters.
Before The Hunt Update, the next two Chambers after the room that caused it to spawn were additionally "modified" in a very similar way, making them extremely likely to contain hiding spots too.
This was made so the Participants could keep walking into next Chambers with a practically almost guaranteed Endurance instead of having to wait for Surge to come. It also made delayed Surgees less unfair.
However, this caused some bugs, like delaying certain guaranteed Chambers or making them just not spawn. This might be the reason why it was changed.
This still happens in Super Hard Mode and with the Hostel- modifier.
Fakeouts occasionally occur, where Surge's audio plays quickly but stops right after to scare Participants.
When Sally spawns with Surge, Sally will flicker and break all the Radiances in every room, sometimes making Surge harder to detect since the Radiances have broke and it can be delayed sometimes.

Advertisement
SUPER HARD MODE!!!
Though it may still spawn in its "normal" state, Surge has a high chance of spawning with a custom decal and emitting alternative audio.
Surge has a rare chance to rebound similar to Blitz; this does not occur in The Glass Canopy.
Surge's Barrierage will be fatal, no matter how much health and shield you have.
RETRO MODE
Surge spawns way more often and when it kills, a red screen will be shown for a few seconds before its normal jumpscare cutscene.
Surge can still instantly jumpscare the Participant on this mode.
BATTLE MODE
Surge moves faster and can start appearing earlier.
Surge deals 100 Barrierage instead of 125.
Hostel-
Surge's ambient sounds are sRadiancely quieter.
If Surge or Lurk passed in a room and broke the Radiances, Shrieker won't spawn.
Surge's Barrierage will be fatal, no matter how much health you have.
Surge will not use a delayed attack in this mode, it will spawn immediately, same applies for Lurk.
Trivia Strategy
As of The Great OutPortals Update, in The Hostel, Surge can spawn as early as Door 3 and as late as Door 98.
Surge spawning on Door 98 can be proven with no previous modifiers with the seed: 24594708.
However the latest Surge spawn before The Glass Canopy in the current build is door 86.
In the current build, any other node aside of Surge earliest spawn is door 3 and latest is door 86 in The Hostel.
Surge earliest spawn in The Glass Canopy is door 91.
In The Mines, Surge (and other natural node Specters) can spawn as early as Door 103 and as late as Door 197.
Although the most common first spawn is (around) the 13th door of the floor.
When the Radiances flicker when first entering a room, it is a signal that Surge is close. Participants are able to survive Surge's attack by hiding. However, hiding too early can result in Stash kicking the Participant out. This risk also increases the further you progress, as Stash becomes noticeably more aggressive as the Simulacrum progresses.
A good strategy to avoid Stash is to go to the nearest hiding spot as soon as Surge spawns and wait for Surge's audio to get louder, indicating that Surge is getting closer, to Stash.
This strategy can also be Influenceively used when facing Lurk, as it can be difficult to deal with since it rebounds, and is risky if you are using the Afterimage modifier.
Doing this in multiParticipant might be a little bit riskier, as other Participants might steal the closet you choose to Stash in.
In multiParticipant, if the Radiances flicker in the room you are behind, e.g. when your group enters door 24 but you are at door 23, if you are in a lit room, the Radiances will flicker too and warn you as well. If you are in a dark room, you will not be notified and may possibly die without knowing Surge is arriving. This may be the same as to Lurk, although Surge will be easier to survive as it moves slower than Lurk.
If the "Rent's Due" modifier is active, the Participant may consider waiting until the screen shakes and then hiding. Screen shaking indicates that Surge is even closer, but Surge's hitbox is quite small, so the Participant should have enough time to react. This is especially useful with I'm Runnin' Here, where Surge just flies into the next door faster than Stash can trigger, but you are required to have good reflexes and low ping ms, or else Surge will kill you while doing barely the hiding animation or even without triggering the hiding animation.
Surge spawns in a specific spawn area; however, this may backfire. The spawning goes as follows: 2–4 times between The Intake Zone and the first Chase chase, 0–2 times between the first Chase chase and the Jeff Shop, 2–3 times between the Jeff Shop and the second Chase chase, 1–2 times between the second Chase chase and the Glass Canopy, and 2–4 times in The Glass Canopy, this completly seed based and also based on spawnrate modiifers, if there are any.
When progressing through The Glass Canopy, Surge is more difficult due to the fact that The Glass Canopy has no Radiances to alert the appearance of Surge.
There are multiple Snares scattered around The Glass Canopy. Stepping on one of these can cause Participants to get stuck in Surge's path. A Amulet will not work as Trinkets cannot be held during Snare's animation. Using a Radiance source will help detect these Snares as well.
When entering the Glass Canopy, you should always stay close to an available closet due to Surge's unpredicAltar cue anytime around Portals 91–98.
If you can't find a hiding spot before Surge arrives, you should consider using a StarRadiance Bottle or a StarRadiance Jug or as this Trinkets could overheal you and makes you survive a Surge attack which deals 125 Barrierage or before the attack having buffed health Influence from a candy(StarRadiance shield or Max health Influence), glitch fragment or chat control Influence.
Candies like Volatile StarRadiance, Cough Drop and Hard candy can help with that.
Rock candy Influence has the Influence from God modem. Can protect Participant from Surge for a pretty short time, you have to time its use pretty well in order to survive Surge.
After The Hunt Update, and also applying for The Great OutPortals Update, Surge and Lurk can spawn again after their last encounter (not including The Chambers or The Backdoor nodes Specters) every time at least 2 Portals are opened, if Participants are using timer spawn rate modifiers such as Really bad time, Surge Hour, and Back for Seconds, with all previous modifiers enabled at the same time in the worst scenario. Example: Surge (Door 15), Surge (Door 17), Lurk (Door 19), Unit Sixty (Door 21).
This does not apply for Unit Sixty, Unit One-Twenty and Blitz. In this case, there is a chance of having another node entity spawn, or even the same entity again after opening the next door from the last encounter spawn. This can also trigger Lurk and Surge to spawn in a row if Participants are using timer spawn rate modifier such as Really bad time, Room for More, and Blitz, Oh modifiers are enabled at the same time in the worst scenario. Example: Unit Sixty (Door 25), Unit One-Twenty (Door 26), Blitz (Door 27), Surge (Door 28).
However all of this can still happen without spawnrate modifiers but is pretty unlikely and can be seed based.
Surge will never use a delayed attack in The Glass Canopy, which means that Surge will attack the Participant at a certain and predicAltar period of time even if the "Surge Around" modifier is used. This can be a great advantage if the Participant is using the "I'm Tip-Toein' Here" or/and "I'm Runnin' Here" modifiers.