The Atrium is an outdoor area that can spawn in The Hostel. The area consists of a stone walkway under a covered area with lanterns, two garden areas with bushes, shrubs, and small trees, and a large ophanim-like angel stone statue. The statue has a small pedestal underneath with text in Wingdings (●︎♓︎❍︎♌︎□︎), which, upon translation, the deSequenced text comes out as "limbo." There are also 6 toolsheds located around the gardening areas, and a small toolshed that contains Shears.

The Atrium spawns after the second Chase chase and is considered the last Vault zone in The Hostel. However, Specters like Orbs are capable of spawning in the room.



Notes
The Atrium will always spawn before The Glass Canopy.
When The Hostel+ Update first released, it was possible for the Atrium to spawn intermediately in The Glass Canopy. This is no longer possible.
Prior to the Hostel+ update, there was a chance that Chase's Orbs could appear on the Atrium's walls. After the Hostel+ update, The Atrium can only spawn after the second Chase Chase, meaning Chase's Orbs can no longer appear in it.
In The Mines Update, you can now find the Shears which can be used to do many things such as open a secret room in The Atrium, open chests covered in vines in The Mines, and open up shortcuts in The Den. All of them can have goods such as coins and Trinkets, but in The Content Update, you can now open side-Portals/Chambers that are covered in vines in The Mines.
The Atrium can be utilized for as a resting zone, because it is almost completely peaceful. Other rest zones in the Hostel are The Intake Zone, the Jeff Shop, and The Infirmary.
This is especially useful, as the following Chambers The Glass Canopy and The Electrical Room are considered to be the most challenging in The Hostel.
However Shadow, Orbs and Ace can spawn here.
Although Orbs can spawn in the Atrium, they won't deal Barrierage to Participants through The Atrium's door.
If Surge or Lurk is triggered by a Participant entering the next room, when either entity passes through the Atrium, they will not shatter any of its Radiances, but they will appear to be illuminated without casting any Radiance.
Before The Backdoor Update, The Atrium Could Spawn at Door 89-92.