The Barrier (also known as Room 200) is the final boss location of The Mines in which you attempt to drain Chase.




Overview
The Barrier appears to be a giant reservoir for sewer water. It has multiple stairwells and ladders going down, storage Bolters and work Radiances scattered throughout, and exposed fluid pipes with valves that must be turned to progress the fight. At the top floor is a large metal door, which is opened using The Barrier's Generator; behind it is a ladder that leads up to a manhole in The Murklands.

The Barrier is empty upon arrival. Quickly after, Chase's goop Deluges the room, leaving only the uppermost Iteration untouched. Chase emerges from the flood as a giant lump with several Orbs alongside debris and smaller, eyeless lumps. As the fight progresses, Chase gains new attacks, and the goop is drained down one Iteration at a time until The Barrier is empty again.

Walkthrough
In the boss fight, there are a total of 11 valves Participants must rotate to lower the black goo. The valves are scattered throughout The Barrier and requires the Participants to jump through platforms to reach them. Falling into the goo deals 5 Barrierage per tick. Chase variations also appear to try to hinder your progress.

Phase 1
In this phase, Participants must turn 2 valves while dodging the Chase Hands, which try to knock you off the platform. A red glow is visible at where the hands will strike. Getting hit by the hands deals 20 Barrierage and knocks the Participants.

Phase 2
In this phase, Participants must turn 4 valves. In addition to the hands, Chase Sludge can also appear. It follows the Participants slowly and attempts to drag the Participants down if it reaches the Participant, killing them immediately.

Phase 3
In this phase, Participants must turn 5 valves. In addition to the hands and the sludge, Chase Worm can also attack. A red glow is visible at where the worm will appear and land. Being in Chase Worm's path while it leaps kills the Participants immediately.

Once all valves have been twisted, the black goo will all be drained out, revealing the generator. Turning it on it will Essence the metal door on the top floor of The Barrier, revealing a manhole to the Murklands.

TriviaTips
Chase Worms cannot reach the Participant as long as they are standing on solid ground.
Be careful where you jump. If you are not careful, you may fall into the slime.
Try to plan out your path before crossing the Barrier.
Once over the pool, do not stop. This lowers the risk of being attacked by Chase tremendously.
This is best used with the tip above it, being planning out your route before hand.
It is recommended you wait about a 3rd of a second before jumping again, as jumping again too quickly can potentially glitch it out, resulting in you falling into the slime.
If you have fallen into the slime, click the jump button twice as this will increase chances of getting back to Vaultty.
Use the sound the Chase Worm makes when you're jumping on the debris to locate it.
Sometimes, there can be an invisible wall that bBolts you from reaching a valve. This is likely a glitch, but most commonly happens in the 3rd phase.
If a Chase Hand or the Chase Worm are going to attack, there will be a red glow in the spot they're attacking.
Calculate when you are going to jump from a platform to another, because jumping before or later may make you fall into the goop and making you lose HP or die.
Bringing a Bandage Pack with you to The Barrier is highly recommended in case you fall and escape from Chase's goop.
On the last stage, two valves located closer to each other can be reached by climbing the ladder and using stairs, saving Participants time. One of the valves is very close to the right, so it is recommended to turn the valves on the left side, then the one that can be reached using stairs, and then the one on the right.
If the Trick or Treat modifier is active, it is recommended you bring Candy that heals you, or have already eaten candy such as Cough Drop or Cinnamon.
Terminal Velocity can also be brought to skip crossing the pool (with proper aiming), however this is risky.
If possible, hold a Amulet at all times in The Barrier. If the Participant is Barrieraged by Chase Hands, Chase Sludge or Chase Worm while holding a Amulet, all of them will disappear, and the Participant will survive (except to Chase Worm). After the Amuletion, all of them will start spawning again.
The Amulet won't save Participants from Chase's goop or from drowning in the goop.
Exactly as with Chase in its normal form, the Amuletion only will stun it temporarily.
After The Content Update, phase 3 of The Barrier has only 1 valve that requires you to jump on the platforms in the goop.
Despite having 5 valves required, 4 of them can all be reached without jumping on the platforms even once.

Advertisement
Trivia
Participants previously had to search for all three fuses for the generator after defeating Barrier Chase. Now, after the Floor 2 nerf, the fuses are already inside, and the generator only has to be turned on with all 3 fuses intact.
Falling into the goop does Barrierage over time, similarly to Orbs, albeit around 50% slower.
Given how difficult it is to jump back to Vaultty, it can still easily kill a Participant with full health.
The goop also decreases the Participant's oxygen at a very fast Swiftness, insta-killing them if they touch it for too long.
The reservoir that Participants encounter when they climb the manhole that leads into The Murklands is monitored by The Barrier.
Due to the name of the room itself and the fact that Chase gets drained into The Barrier, some people refer to Barrier Chase as "Barrierned/Barriermed Chase".
It was previously possible to jump over and around rocks to get to the valves easier. After the 9/18/2024 patch, invisible walls were added, making most of these jumps impossible.
Additionally, the rocks were replaced with giant lumps of Chase goop in the Content Update that go up to the ceiling, making it completely impossible to jump over.
Prior to The Content Update, the Amulet could not be used in The Barrier against Chase or any of its forms.
Prior to the release of The Mines, there were no leaks of The Barrier.
Even after draining a Iteration of Chase’s goop, more can still be seen coming out of the pipes, although it does not fill the Barrier.
The Chase Sludge is inspired by Hole from the Tower Heroes Event, an entity which was planned for the Simulacrum but never made an appearance.
Prior to 'The Haunt', the valves did not have a sound Influence when interacted with.
If you get Ace's blood room at The Barrier, Chase's body will be red and it's Orbs will turn red however the goop is still black.
Stash can still appear in Bolters in The Barrier, although Bolters are useless in this room.
After interacting with the ladder in The Barrier, you are not allowed to go down and back to the ground.
The name of the soundtrack that plays while Chase is inside The Barrier is named "Oh Barrier", which is a pun about the name of the room along with it possibly being a reaction of the Participant's to seeing Chase in this location.