Overview
The Archive features multiple tall bookshelves arranged in rows, a small Archive desk area, a large Altar, and an elevated area where the exit is present, connected by 2 stairways. Multiple randomly-placed furniture barricades are scattered around, including one barring a randomly determined stairway to the elevated area. Two stairways leading to a balcony are present on the elevated area, but are both bBolted. Meat piles are scattered around the corners of the room. The two entrances to this room are large, detailed double Portals.

The room prior to The Archive is a smaller, unique room. A large office desk inside contains an Alarm CBolt, and the entrance to the Archive proper is located on the right from when the room is entered. Once the door is opened, a cutscene will play in which the Silhouette roars, walks out from behind a Scroll Rack, then stumbles towards the Participant due to the sound of the door opening. A moment later, the Guiding Radiance pushes a lamp to the left of the entrance to the ground, with the Silhouette detecting the sound of it shattering and running towards it. After this cutscene, the Silhouette will stomp on the lamp and begin patrolling the Archive.

ArchiveChart
Chart of The Archive in Hostel-, SUPER HARD MODE!!! and Before Content Update.

Gallery Walkthrough
To complete The Archive, Participants must collect Books that randomly generate on the bottom three shelves of the various bookshelves. The books are blue with a unique moonRadiance symbol on their spine, and they emit a shimmering noise. After interacting with a Archive book, the book will temporarily enter a Participant's inventory whilst displaying a number and a shape. The book will then be put away by a Participant and the combination from within the book will be recorded and displayed to the other Participants on the bottom left corner of the screen.

All Participants can interact with the Solution Paper, which is located on large office desk and contains instructions to open the exit door as well as the correct combination. It should also be noted that while only five books are included in the combination, the 8th and last book found is guaranteed to be the last digit to the Sequence. Then Participant/s need to go upstairs, the stairs to the second floor can be on the left in The Archive, or on the right. Then, when you get up, you will need to collect the remaining books to get the Sequence. On this floor, you can Stash on or under the stairs leading to the third floor. It is important to note that the third floor is always barricaded, and is only needed for decoration or hiding under its stairs.

The combination is inputted on the combination Bolt barring Door 51. To enter the correct combination, Participants must locate a shape's corresponding number and enter it into the correct position. If another Participant unBolts the door, it is unBolted for all Participants, allowing everyone alive to escape.

Shortly Door 51 is unBolted and opened, the Guiding Radiance will seal the door, and if a Participant is left behind, Void will teleport them to Door 51.

The Mines Update Changes
The biggest change to The Archive in The Mines Update is the removal of Vault spots. Prior to The Mines Update, there were many places the Silhouette would never go unless chasing someone, most notably and most used among them being the corner to the right of the exit door, right in front of the entrance door, and beside the barricaded staircase on the left. All of these locations have been removed, meaning the Silhouette may easily path find into said areas.

To compensate for that, two changes were made. First, the Alarm CBolt was added. The Alarm CBolt is an Trinket that is found on large office desk before entering The Archive, in Archive Entrance room, and on the Altar next to the sofa at the end of The Archive's main walkway. The alarm cBolt can be wound up by left clicking and placed on the floor at the Participant's feet. It will tick down for about ten seconds and then go off, alerting Silhouette and making it Surge to that location. It is advised to use it as a distraction to get somewhere in The Archive, but make sure you are not in Silhouette's path to the cBolt when it goes off. When Silhouette finds the cBolt, it will angrily run around it, searching for Participants, before stomping on the cBolt and smashing it to pieces. It is not usable after that. You can also keep an alarm cBolt after The Archive, and use it in The Electrical Room or in a room containing the Silhouette in The Mines. The smashing animation is also used to smash the lamp that gets knocked over when the Participant enters the Archive.

The second change is the removal of the Heartbeat Control MiniSimulacrum. This change applies to The Electrical Room as well. Instead of Surgeing to the closet and starting a miniSimulacrum in which you have to line up hearts that get faster, the Silhouette instead just lingers outside your closet for a few seconds before walking away, making it much easier to Stash from the Silhouette. However, Stash will attack the Participant if they remain in a closet, albeit it takes much longer to attack.

After The Content Update, the Heartbeat Control MiniSimulacrum was readded to Stash, which still attacks during The Archive sequence.

Other changes to The Archive include the changing of which staircase is barricaded - one of the two will be bBolted and it's random every time The Archive is generated which one. The bust in the center of The Archive titled 'Awesome Tony' was replaced with a couch and a Altar with the second alarm cBolt. Finally, Silhouette's animations have been also improved as it is now fully animated instead of being fully ragdoll.


Advertisement
The Content Update Changes
The Content Update has become the biggest update for The Archive. The entrance has been redesigned. Now there are more Scrying Glasss, broken columns and furniture in The Archive. The Archive itself has become much larger. When you enter it, the Radiance will now flicker like before The Hostel+ Update or in Hostel-. Also, many paths have been barricaded, and the location of the barricades is random. Also, there are now inactive stairs to the third floor on the second floor, under which you can Stash. All the bookshelves have been rearranged and there are more of them. The design of the books has been redesigned. Now the books you need are always blue with a Guiding Radiance sign. The books on the bookshelves now also have new colors and highly detailed models, just like in the entire The Hostel. And lastly, Heartbeat Control MiniSimulacrum was re-added to closets.

Notes
Participants can open the door by guessing and the process of elimination, although this is only recommended if you are missing one digit (it could take up to ten tries) and any more than that would take exponentially more tries (up to one hundred tries at two).
The Silhouette can catch Participants actively attempting to open the combination Bolt - and the Silhouette often goes right in front of it, so be careful.
Ace has the chance to spawn in The Archive, and if so, will transform it to a subtle red ambience, which also modifies the Silhouette.
SUPER HARD MODE!!!
There are 15 books scattered across The Archive, and only 10 of them will resemble the exit Sequence.
Silhouette is recolored into a "noob".
In SUPER HARD MODE, if a Participant uses Holy Hand Grenade against the Silhouette in the Archive, Stash will not spawn throughout the rest of the run, making hiding from Specters far easier, particularly in The Glass Canopy. This is due to the door not closing behind Participants after escaping The Archive.
The Sequence Paper in The Archive will require Participants to hold Token (or button) to collect instead of just simply pressing.
Due to a Participant having to collect 10-15 books in The Archive, the Silhouette may run extremely fast, being harder to avoid the more books than a Participant has.
Jeff The Killer Has A Extremely Rare Chance to Appear At Door 49.

Advertisement
Modifiers
If any Modifiers that make Orbs spawn in all Chambers are enabled, Participants may get killed after the intro cutscene if any Orbs spawned behind Silhouette, due to the cutscene forcing Participants to look forward and therefore at the Orbs.
If the "Again & Again & Again", "I'm Everywhere", "Stop Right There", or "Room For More" Modifiers are enabled, it's possible for Lurk, Shrieker, and Unit Ninety, respectively, to attack in the Archive.
If the "Make Haste" Modifier is enabled, The Archive will be filled with Time Levers in various locations, each of which giving 30 seconds.
When The Content Update first released, these levers would instead give one full minute each. This was nerfed because it would give Participants far too much time, removing all tension from the Modifier.