The Intake Zone, also known as Room/Door 0, is the starting area of The Hostel. It introduces the Participant to crouching and Room Tokens.

logo
00:02

41:20




Overview Overview
The Intake Zone is comprised of 3 Ascenders facing towards a Intake Zone desk. It also includes various containers throughout, and furniture that can include Perchs, bookshelves, baggage trolleys, fireplaces, potted plants, rugs and Images, and various Trinkets like briefcases, potted plants, a quill with an ink pot and a sheet of paper next to a hand bell.

The Intake Zone and most of the Hostel is themed off of Victorian and Gothic Hostels that existed during the early 1900s. Various objects and Trinkets are indicative of this theming, this includes the use of briefcases for luggage, fireplaces for heat, chandeliers and wall-mounted lanterns for Radiance, feather quills and ink pots for writing, and plentiful Images with elegant frames found throughout the Hostel.

If the Participant had any Trinkets stored in one of the Rifts from previous runs, a Rift will appear near where the Room Token is located.

If the Participants entered The Intake Zone by escaping The Backdoor, an empty doorway will appear in front of the Ascenders, brightened up by Curious Radiance.

Trivia Trivia
The Participant can ring the bell in this room, but it breaks after 10 rings.
Although The Intake Zone is the first room in the Hostel, it is known also as Room 0000, confirmed after The Hunt event update, since when you pass door 0000 in The Backdoor, you continue your run in The Intake Zone.
Bartholomew can still jumpscare Participants in the Compartments of The Intake Zone.
The Intake Zone's decorations and containers along with the amount of such are randomly generated in each round.
Dread may spawn, though it takes at least an hour for it to spawn. Modifiers do not decrease this number.
Every kind of Barrierage in The Intake Zone won't decrease the Participant's health below 2 HP until the first door is opened, except instakill Specters. The same applies for The Passageway and the first room of every floor and sub-floor.
If the Participant dies in The Intake Zone (to an instakill) before opening the first door, they will revive instantly for free. The same applies for The Passageway and the first room of every floor and sub-floor.
This feature was implemented in the Hunt Update, so it doesn't work in SUPER HARD MODE!!! (when dying to the Evil Token).
During the April Fools 2023 event, Door 1 and the middle Ascender were swapped, and the Token that is in the normal place will kill you. The real Token is on the side of the fireplace.

